Hi, good evening.
Nine. Participant has joined in now.
So how are you? Most of you
we have met right in the last week.
Yes. Yeah. It's a great connect there in person. Yeah.
Good to meet everybody.
Okay, so all
of you have been back by Monday morning?
Yes sir. Yes sir. Okay,
so one, I mean one class was lost, so I think most
of you have forgotten what was the last, last topic.
Okay, so I'll revise it again today.
So this Saturday class will be there, I think, right
there is a rescheduling happening for last class
that we have missed out. Okay.
Yes. We got that. Uh,
Email. Yeah.
Hmm. So this, we have a research at our campus, so,
but I will take the class
because I don't want to, uh, reschedule again
and again to get problem.
Sure. Okay.
So for two days' task, uh, it is not a task to this topic.
I will tell you where reinforcement learning is used.
Let me share the screen. And Microsoft whiteboard.
You open the Microsoft whiteboard,
how to get a whiteboard?
Prompt.
Prompt, I think,
do you have any idea how to get the whiteboard?
So maybe click on that, uh, dropdown, uh, whiteboard.
So you have that
Here? Yes, create
new. Okay. That's okay.
I think this is already a Okay. Do one thing.
Uh, go to the home, click on the home next to that.
Uh, left off. Yeah, create a new board here.
I think that was already a
whiteboard so I can create a new one.
Yeah,
I think blank blank.
Uh, start with blank canvas on the top. Right on the top.
Right below the, yeah. Oh
Yeah. Okay.
Okay. So today's date is what?
Use of reinforcement learning.
11 means language model. Okay, so today's 24th.
December 25. Let me rename the board.
Where is the rename option?
So click on that whiteboard too.
No, no. Here my, here the name is coming as
Oh, okay.
Here the rename.
No, your whiteboard file name is whiteboard two.
So is that what you want to change?
No, no, no. I just want to change the
name of the person talking.
Okay.
Let me stop sharing and then do it.
Okay, so now you got it.
Okay. So the use of, uh, reinforcement learning.
So suppose I write is in a sentence,
uh,
just a sentence.
I'm thinking, what
if
I was born
in 1935
and
okay, 1930.
What if I was, uh, there's no way to
actually, how there's no way to us.
I was
in the
twenties in
1990s
and if I
was a
electrical, I was an electrical engineer
in,
in growing
Country, like,
like you say, already, develop a country in Middle East.
Okay.
This is a sentence created by a human being.
Now how language model looks at it,
they'll construct a graph out of it.
So if they want to generate a sentence how they do it,
that's what I'm trying to say.
Okay. If they want to do it, they'll generate a graph,
a graph out of it, how they do it.
Basically, the most important, um,
uh, frequently occurring word that works as a
verb or reposition, which are coming
frequently in the sentence, they work as a, um,
as a entity that can split the sentence in left
and right both side.
Look at this was, let me change the color, how
to change the color here.
Okay, this is one place was okay
in another, again, was coming here.
Look at rest of the words are not repeatedly occurring.
Okay. Then you have,
and these are all connector.
I can say connectivity between two part was
if, if according in,
in occurred, 1, 2, 3 places.
E four card two places. Okay.
So this is, they get it after that.
Drag it down.
After that. What they'll do, they'll do like this.
So today, morning
i, i is also coming multiple time.
Okay? So I then
was no, from here they will create multiple path,
one path going to this part of sentence.
So here one
part arrow mark.
I was lying
in my bed.
This and also I will use, okay, lying in my bed.
This and what if,
so I keep another, uh, so from was
I can make another part here that is going to, was
at the age of,
at the age
of twenties.
Okay, here,
this sentence, I can write again from here.
This, and again, I create one more path here.
One more path here. This and, and thinking. What if,
thinking what if
I was at the age, this taken here, then this
and something is there, is there anymore
and here and and here.
And I was a this thing, I
was an electrical engineer.
I'm writing e electrical engineer. Okay? This is one part.
Then I get is this if,
if also splitting.
So this part is over
and then somehow I come out over here, go here,
come out over here like that.
It is a random graph, okay? This is all random.
Basically if
so from, if I have two path, I was
at age twenties.
Then the second part is if I was an electrical engineer,
I was
and electrical
engineer, okay?
In growing country.
So I keep it as a separate sentence, uh,
not separate sentence,
but just split it up by gap in the
growing
something in Middle East.
Okay? So this is a basically random walk I am making. Okay?
So the language model, how they do is basically they,
they are trained to do.
So a sentence, whatever number, let's,
I have a number of words in my sentence.
It is starting from X zero X one,
X zero, x one.
X zero is this word. Okay?
Today, X one is the word of morning like that,
like that X two.
This will be up to XN in number of words is given to me
like in minus of one, okay?
Given in minus of one what's given to me.
Can I predict the eighth word?
This is the whole job language model tool.
Next word prediction.
So they treat every word as basically a token
and the whole sentence is called a time series.
So what is the probability of
finding N word?
Let me change the color.
So what is the probability?
What is the probability of
given this is X zero X one
up to n minus of what?
Given n minus of what? To me?
What is the probability that XN will be somewhat, okay,
somewhat picked up from this sentence.
Okay? This is how, this is the main aim of them.
So for doing that, what they do is using
the markoff chain property,
the memoryless property of markup chain.
They make it like this probability of XN given
XN minus so on multiplied by probability
of XN minus one given
XN minus two.
Okay? So for each word they do like this, okay?
This will go on this multiplication, it'll go on until
probability of X one.
Given X zero is given
multiplied by marginal probability of probability of XG.
So these all conditional probability,
these are all conditional probability
and this one is called marginal probability.
So this is called basically your seed word.
This part is called seed word.
So when you start generating a language, I mean you,
if you use any kind of LLM,
you just provide the starting word.
After the starting word is given from the trained model,
they will generate a sentence.
So the starting word, word nothing,
but your prob of X, no
from this X, no.
They can generate X one given X no has been seen.
Then they'll generate X two.
Given X one has been already seen like that, it'll go on.
So this, this is the property used by Markoff property.
Okay? Now this property,
this, this model is being learned by neural network.
So in the language model, by having all
of your transformer based neural network.
So transformer based neural network, nothing
but it is a encoder and decoder architecture.
So one transformer layer, they'll feed
to another transformer layer, they'll feed
to another transformer layer like that 16 layer seven
or 20 layers will be trained.
After that, the output layer will be having
so many words to be predicted
and the total number of word is equal to the number
of word present in the dictionary, okay?
In the English dictionary.
So they will predict a, uh, word
among all the possible words.
So they will have a probability assigned to it.
It is under prob is called likelihood, likelihood assigned
to one word, okay?
Which is basically the frequency
of this word according divided by total number
of words like that.
So this is used for training this neural network model.
Then where reinforcement learning is used.
So once you have trained your model
to predict the next word,
then reinforcement learning will be used for
post training mechanism.
So reinforcement learning is used
as a post-training mechanism, not as a
mechanism for training the model.
So once you have predicted so many, next word
after that you have it is not you.
This is how open AI has trained.
This is how we have learned.
That is how I am teaching to you.
So after that, reinforcement learning will be used
to do the post-training.
Post-training means what?
Alignment of the work in a sentence.
Post-training means alignment
of words in a
sentence, okay?
How? What is the meaning of alignment?
So whenever you are generating, you are using this model
to generate the next word.
Your word may be coming up like this.
It is basically today morning I
was lying in my bed.
This is having some probability.
Let's say
0.3.
This might be having a probability of 0.2. Okay?
This might be this. I'm splitting the sentence.
I want to see what comes after what.
Okay, so this weight
of this property is going to be learned
by the reinforcement learning model.
The what choice
that is the next word choice is picked up in
the P train phase.
Preterm phase, which is trained
by binary cross entropy laws.
But after you do the next word prediction,
your word may be randomly coming up from any sentence
that you have already seen.
Now whether that random word is actually matching
with some good sense
or not, that is for that alignment will require
to do reinforcement learning.
The reinforcement learning, what it'll do, it'll split up
this thing like it's called chunk by chunk, okay?
And they'll connect it based on some kind
of connective word, like which are according as
frequently and what like far
reposition or uh,
noun, they will be working as a connector
among all of those parts.
And these probabilities are going
to be la these are random probabilities,
0.5, okay?
They are going to be learned by the reinforcement learning.
So what reinforcement learning do you know that
learning is basically learning about your environment.
So you have a state and you have a action
that you can take in a particular state
and then you are going to transition to next state.
So what is the state in this language model?
The state is basically the words that you have already seen.
That is one state, okay?
Upon seeing those words,
what is the next word that you can choose?
Okay? So that is your action.
Once you choose a next word, you are changing one state
to another state transition.
Okay? So reinforcement learning will be used
for defining this state with the words that you have seen
for defining your next action that you are picking up.
And then after the action,
you are landing into some other next state,
whether this state or that state.
Once you have landed new state,
you would take another action to generate a new word, okay?
After all, defining all of this environment, then you have a
predefined reward.
Like in case of Pro lake
and all, we have already seen that only when we're reaching
to the goal state, we get a reward.
Intermediate state has no reward.
So what you do once you complete your sentence,
if the sentence is aligned with a proper sense of English,
then you get a reward.
Good or bad, okay?
Your reward can be,
let's say you are writing English like this, this is not
that good English, but if you, let's say you're a person,
like uh, okay,
you have heard the name, the famous news anchor
in NDTV Once upon a time he was a news anchor.
He started his career from BBC world this week he used
to run a program called World This Week.
Yes sir. Yeah, he was one of the best anchor.
I'm not talking about his content or his intention,
but as far as if you remove those intention
and his content, the way he speaks is mesmerized in speaker
and that is how he had a high position.
He has a high influence in the then government also
two dec, I mean almost two terms that government has ruled,
uh, in alliance government in India, okay?
So their English is very, very fine English
or if you consider he speaks English, Ms man,
nowadays you might be hearing a very good speaker like
lawyer js, I Deepak.
I think he, his English is equally as good as, okay.
So now you try to give a reward for the sentence
that you have generated you, the sentence generated
by ordinary man like me.
This sentence, like this is not good sentence,
but if the same context is given to
or um, GSI people
or person like them, they'll make a very,
very fantastic sentence.
So you are going to give a higher reward for those sentence.
So upon completion of the sentence, you give a reward.
That reward will be flowing back till your starting
of your sentences today
for training your reinforcement learning model
because this is your environment
of your reinforcement learning, okay?
This is the main essence of
actually reinforcement learning has been used in
robotic advanced robotics.
Open AI has made it a tremendous effort to make
reinforcement learning applied to language model
before open ai.
It was basically the open ai, it was,
I I already told you those
who are interested in this domain, not just research,
not just anything, just as a pursuit of knowledge.
The people behind them is basically, one of them is
Peter Abel whose lectured slide I have told you to follow.
Peter Abel and then uh, David Sil John school man,
they are the main brain behind, uh, this to happen.
All of them used to work in Google Deep DeepMind until 2017.
But when Google DeepMind was deeply immersed only in
bot model training, they departed from DeepMind.
They started this open AI
as Sam old man is not a technical person.
He is only CEO, but these people Peter, bill
and car, okay?
And that is a very famous uh, implementer guy.
He is not a Ian, he's an implementation guy
and Plex perplexity that company,
Arwin simulation, what is the name?
I forgot something. Plexity.
It has created a good uh, image
that Indian can also start a company in ai,
but complexity AI is nowhere in any contribution
in theoretical field.
They're only into some kind of implement that
to the implementation is not of their own implementation.
Okay? So now you have understood the essence
of reinforcement learning, okay?
This is how the random work is created
and then this random work is going to be aligned
as per the reward that we're providing.
So let us now go back to our theory.
So there are four methods to do this model.
Free reinforcement learning. One method is TD learning.
I don't have the graph here. Let me write it out here.
So model free reinforcement learning, it has,
so model free, actually model based reinforcement learning.
Whatever you have learned till now,
it has a very minimum application
because the environment is not known to you.
So there are methods, like
first method is called Monte Carlo.
Second one is called TD learning. Third method is called
learning and DQ learning.
Yeah, that is actually their subset of D learning itself.
Actually they're not a separate thing.
So TD learning, when it is applied
to V function, that is value function.
It is called normal TD learning.
When TD learning is applied to Q function.
When it is applied on Q function, it is known as
Q learning,
right?
Q learning has two more surplus.
So Q learning has two, two more subclass.
One is called on
policy actually Q learning.
Originally it started from off
policy on policy.
Another one is called Off policy.
I will tell you what is the difference in on.
So you already know for machine learning,
online learning algorithm, right?
This is the only difference. I like that.
So on policy, this is known as
known as
ssa.
SSA means state action reward state action.
Ssa very famous algorithm of policy is normally known as Q.
Learning of policy is basically known as Q learning.
What are the expression?
Expression is already given to you in this PDF
that I have already shared to you.
You can see this PDF having only 10 pages
and the chapter number is chapter five.
Okay? So what is um, Montecarlo
and uh, Montecarlo Last class I've already explained to you
still I will just do a revision.
So, oh, so what is the meaning of basically
your model Free reinforcement learning.
So if you remember from your earlier model based,
we used to evaluate our value function
for every state in this manner that if I want
to compute the value function
of if I start the game from the state of a
smallest is smallest, okay?
Then at a I pick up a action with a priority
priority that is called PI A given a
for all possible action, I will do a submission
that is this submission, outer submission is over a
multiplied by probability
of next date.
Given that I have taken action A
and the state of S,
this action A is coming from this outer loop condition.
Okay? So the next date I'm landing into I denoted by S desk.
So I have to take care of all possible next date.
So I do a summation of what this then this multiplied
by reward plus value
obtained at the previous is VK for the next date
of S.
This was our MDP. That is you need one knowledge, okay?
If this is known,
then only we can apply if this is known, if this is known.
However, if they are not known, like in terms
of model three means you don't have any knowledge of
next state that you're transitioning into
for a particular action.
Okay? So you don't have that knowledge.
Then in that case, what should we do?
That is called either Monte Carlo
or TD learning in case of Monte Carlo, what we do
that is the new value that is V new.
We write V super script by new, okay?
V new for the state of A.
Okay. At this position I will write
a state of A
for let's say is K plus one.
So is the state
that is noted by K plus one at state.
Okay? Here, this k plus one means this is a state number.
So you have state number zero from capital N is
capital is total number of states.
So for the state of K plus one, I want
to compute the value for that.
In the Monte method, it is going to be like this.
You have to take help of
the old of, okay, here, let me write it is K itself
that
SK is getting assigned
from the value of old SK
plus you get the reward
after visiting the last uh, uh, goal state.
Okay? So that is reward is your R sigma
total reward that you get, okay?
Minus of your
old estimate, uh, sk
this divided by
in a any total number of states
possible in your environment.
Okay? So that means you have taken in number of transition
to reach to your goal state.
Okay? So in that case, for all the intermediate state,
you don't have any idea about your reward.
You are getting and reaching the last gold state.
So what is the meaning of this?
Basically the old of estimates,
it is a old estimate of your value function
for living in the state of sk.
Okay? If this value is correct, if this value is correct,
then it'll be very, very close
to our sigma, okay?
If this value is not correct,
then it'll be far away from our sigma.
So when it is not correct, it is far away from our sigma.
It means you have a error called this much is your error.
With this error, you update your current estimate,
you do it adaptively.
So this is the update route for your Monte.
What about for your TD learning
or TD zero learning?
TD means basically temporal difference learning. Okay?
T stands for temporal.
D stands for for td zero, zero means the immediate step
that you're taking, right?
So in that case, the learning is basically for V function.
Actually it is only 10 page document
that is I have shared to you.
V function for the state of SK is
to be updated from the previous old value,
the old of SK plus.
You have a learning rate that is called alpha, okay?
This is called learning rate whose value is between.
So alpha is basically greater than
one, less than, uh, greater than zero, less than one.
It is a fraction, okay?
Then what you do with this objection,
objection means the error that you have by which you have to
update your current estimate error means
how far you are from your desired goal state, okay?
If you don't have any error,
then this part is going to be zero.
So you have no update to be taken place.
Your old estimate is good enough.
If you have a error, you would update your old estimate
with some error quantity.
That error quantity. We are going to be adjusting
for Monte Carlo 40 T learning in different manner.
The error quantity for that TD learning is
this alpha is a learning rate multiplied by,
so TD learning says you take only one decision,
you take only one decision, you go to the next state
and assume that the next state has a better picture
of your entire environment.
So you're relying on the estimate of your next date.
However, it may be a erroneous estimate also,
but we'll keep on updating the next state estimation also.
Okay? Because this SK is happening for K is going to one
to NN is a total number of steps, total number
of state, okay?
So come back to a T learning update.
So currently you are living in the state of sk,
you are taking only one transition.
As a result you are going to get one reward.
That reward may be zero,
we don't know about the reward, okay?
So reward plus reward plus
next date you are landing, you are going
to multiply this with your gamma quantity.
That is your discount factor.
V is a value that you are estimating
the value of the next date.
So next date will be SK plus one, okay?
And this value is your old estimate V old.
So the value function available is the S estimate,
hello function for the next day.
That is denoted by SK plus one
and that value function is a estimate of your old iteration.
So this is your taking one action.
You are going to get this much of reward, okay?
This minus of your old estimate
further is
this is the TD learning update for TD zero.
Okay? Zero means you are taking only one action. Okay?
If I want to write TD one learning,
that means I have taken to action.
I will show you the coding, uh, Python.
I made it uh, last night
by consulting various books
and all show you them for TT one learning.
This is going to be the update.
Uh, the updated value for the state of SK
is like this.
This is your old estimate, which was an incorrect estimate.
So he knew is a better estimate, okay?
This plus alpha multiplied by
TD one means you have taken two actions as a result
from sk, you are getting into SK plus one
and then again you take one action.
So from SK plus one you'll go into SK plus two.
So what you get reward
plus
gamma.
Mm
and here also you're gonna take one more
step, one more action.
Okay? So this will be gamma multiplied by
v old SK
plus hang on, plus
goma squared multiplied by old estimate
and then new state called K plus two.
This minus why we're doing minus
because we want to find out what is our error
in our old estimate.
Okay? This minus why you are doing this minus you have this
minus because this minus, basically it stands for
just consider the same thing, same logic.
If your IT has almost saturated, that means converge,
that means your no improvement coming up in that case,
this part like this part
and this, they're going to be equal.
So you're not going to have any more error as a result.
This V is not going to be getting a new value.
It'll be key on getting same value back again and again.
Okay? And here TD one means you have taken
two step action.
So first step you are landing into K plus one step
at next action you are taking,
you are landing into K plus two state.
At every state you get into, you have to multiply
with the discount factor.
So here two means the gamma square means you from the state
of sk you have gone down
two steps in the future.
That is why we are writing here gamma square.
If I go into the end step in the future,
then this submission will keep on going on until gamma part
of N and here B is K plus of N.
Okay? That is called KDN learning.
This is the all formulas. I have not got into Q learning.
I will the same thing.
This instead of V function, you have to write
for Q function, all of them.
This V function will be over written by Q function.
It is called Q learning. Okay?
Now go to Q learning. Just give me a few minutes.
I will tell you what is the expression for your T learning
and multicar.
Okay? So your multicard expression is this.
Here, the total reward that you're going to compute is
after reaching the after completion of your episode, okay?
That is a art sigma.
So you have a error called art sigma minus of this term.
It's a error divide.
This whole error by the total number of steps you have taken
to go to your last state.
That is bold state. So that is in number
of steps you have taken.
Divide that and update that with your old estimate.
You get a new estimate, replace this V function
with Q function, you get
the same equation back with Q function.
This is called Q learning, okay?
For Montecarlo destination, this is called Q learning.
As I told you, in case of Montecarlo method,
since you are dividing your error
term, this is your error term.
Equally for every state, for every state of sk you are
taking the divide that by N.
Okay? That means every step you have taken to victory
or defeat is considered equally important.
It is inefficient, it has no bias, okay?
Whereas TD learning,
they don't wait till the end of your episode.
They think that I will take only one sample,
I'll take only one action, I will get to the next step.
I will believe that my next step is having a better
picture out the environment.
So I will use their estimation of their value function.
I will take that into consideration by dividing it,
by multiplying that with the learning rate.
So this is what is given here in the last class.
Also, I have told you the same thing.
This is only revision happening. Okay?
So look at interest of policy tion
and all this is what we have been doing till now.
Okay? This is what I have written in the expression also
the policy at this, this part, this part.
The only difference here is this pie a given as
and all here it is given
The two submissions are not coming, okay?
Can you tell me why I don't require here two submission,
the action is fixed.
PI K will give you well,
Hmm, yes. So PI
K office will give you the action
and here my function denoting is value function
at the iation of i plus one For the state
of is, okay?
Under the policy called PI K.
So my policies are fixed here in this case, this denoting,
yeah, here my policy is fixed.
I don't have to change any policy.
So when the policy is fixed, that means at the state
of is my action is already given to me.
So I use that. I don't need any probability
submission over here.
Okay? So I use that, I get into the next state,
I can get into multiple next, next state.
So I need to consider all of this next state here.
So I need a submission, but this is for your policy address
and with the knowledge of MDP,
that is you need one knowledge in case of unit two,
that is your model three.
That means you don't have this knowledge, this probability
for next state is not known to you.
Under that situation, we are going to use TD learning
what it does for the state of sk.
This look at, for the state of sk,
I want to find out the value I'm,
I'm basically repeatedly alternatively refining my estimate.
So my new estimate is computed from the old estimate.
In this manner, that value function for the state of sk,
I take them as it is plus alpha multiplied by reward plus
of I take only one decision, I get it to next state
of SK plus one.
I use their estimate, uh, readily available to me,
use their estimate, multiply that comm.
So this is what called estimation from the next date.
If this is quite largely defined from the old
estimate, that means this is going to be non-zero quantity.
So in that case, I will be having a new value
of function SK b sk.
If this values are very, very close, then this,
the subtraction is going to be zero almost.
So I'll not be able to update anything that is
what is a TD learning TD zero learning.
If I go for TD one learning, I will go to, instead
of SK plus one, I'll go onto SK plus two.
That is what is TD two learning from
SK plus one.
I get into SK plus two.
Okay, so here I made a mistake in this
writing here.
Instead of this V old, instead of this V old, it'll be
reward at a state of SK plus one.
So here it is given reward when I have taken in addition
to SK plus one, okay,
then I get into SK plus two,
I will be reusing the already available estimate,
multiply that with common square.
This is called TD two learning
and TD in learning is I have taken N steps into the future.
TD two means, uh, TD two means I have taken two steps into
the future, okay?
TDN here, TDN is basically I have taken
n steps into the future.
See if I have taken n steps in the future, I,
I am getting into the new state call
SK plus n plus one
and this is the reward I'm getting for all the next steps
and this is the value estimate available to me
after I reached this particular state,
which is n plus one steps away.
Okay? This is called TDN learning.
So I have a
python program to show you this thing.
This is again, I'm using
uh, frozen leg.
Uh, no, this is a random walk problem.
Yeah, so random walk problem. So
TDN learning is uh, most similar
to Montecarlo, that case, right?
So you're taking the whole episode in this case?
Yes, yes. If I take in to become very large enough
in that case it'll become equal to almost equal to
your multi equal.
Okay? So this is again random walk.
So I have how many states random walk
the states are given like this.
Uh, zero one to six total.
Seven states are there.
Yeah. Hello. So I have this random,
you have already done long time that seven states are there.
0 2 6 for all the state. I have this policy.
Left, left, left, left, left. Okay.
I can run this policy evaluation from unit one knowledge
to get the true value of value function, right?
The true value for the value functions are given from the
A MDP knowledge unit.
One knowledge is given here for all the states,
all the fellows are given here right now.
I run TD learning. That is TD zero learning.
This is the code actually for writing this part,
this, this thing, this is coded up here.
Very simple. Code V function is for each state.
I want to calculate the V function, right?
So I have the dimension of V function is number
of state NS basically is number of state, okay, fine.
We track is basically for every episode I want to track
because I'm going to run it for 500 number of times
to find every episode, I am making a increment
of my value function.
Okay? So I have to take two dimensional metrics.
Now, this is only one dimensional.
A b we track is for tracking the value,
how the function is improving.
Alpha is basically as,
and when your episode is increasing your alpha,
that is your learning rate is going to be decreasing.
So I have a delay schedule for doing that.
Then I run this thing. This is I'm taking action.
Poff PI is basically this, this thing. What is pi?
PI is here. PI is basically a lambda function here.
So POFF 0 1, 2, 3, type,
it'll return you the left action, right action like that.
Okay? So you are taking by of state,
you're getting a new action.
Now upon this action you are going
to take a next step transition that ISV step function.
This is all available in package, okay? So you can use them.
Then you find out what is your TD target. TD target reward.
That is the next state we reward class of gamma.
It is your discounted multiplied by
the value estimate for your next date.
This, this part, the value estimate
for your next date, right?
This multiplied by not done,
that means this will keep on going on as you have not met
the terminal state.
Whenever we're meeting terminal, this will become true
and it'll not be calculated again.
Then you have a TDA target minus
of current testimate fee state is basically your current
testimate, okay?
Then you update your fee state variable
that is here you are updating your V state here, updating
with the old value plus
of this alpha multiplied by your error.
This is called error alpha multiplied by TD error.
That's it, okay?
Then you save your state
to be next state
and for the next bigger, next state is assigned
to your state variable here
for the new state you are computing this back again,
this will go on until you have not made your
terminal state, okay?
Once you have made your terminal state,
you store your view value function for
that particular episode, E stands for number of episode
here E, this fall loop is basically going on for number
of episode, okay?
Inside episode you are running a infinite loop at infinite
till you are not meeting your terminal state.
This is that condition, right?
Once you have run this, then I can show you the difference
between state value function,
state value function for the TD learning.
That is this. This is the value printed out, okay?
And what is the difference between your TD learning
and your true estimate?
True estimate is used by the knowledge of MDP.
So what is the difference?
The difference is shown over here.
So we have some error minus 0.05, this, that,
okay, so we have some error.
This is my TD learning the same thing.
We can run it for TD in TD learning.
This is that TDN learning
for TD learning the logic is going to be,
this submission is going to happen for the number
of steps you are taking.
Okay? So this submission instead of while not done,
that means you're not meeting your terminal goal
and you are putting the condition that you are,
you are allowed to take a number of steps.
So you are going
to do this submission increase from K plus one to K plus A
for that we are doing this.
The same will do pre as it is, okay?
And after that you can
print the state value function
for the TDN learning, TD and learning.
We are going to get some hello?
And what is the error from your true estimate
that is given over here?
Okay? So look at whether the
error has increased or not.
Here the error is 0.15. Here the error is 0.17.
And for TT zero learning, what is the error?
What it is zero learning.
The error was less here, the error was less.
Here, the error was less.
In of TT in learning, the error has increased
because your environment is very less here,
your taking only seven states.
Okay? And this is the graphics by which I am plotting that
value function, plot, value function, nothing.
But in the exercise I'm plotting number of episode here,
look at number of episode, okay?
As the episode is improving
and as the episode number of episode is increasing,
what is the value function that is getting updated here?
So this card is basically for the state of one.
This card is for state of two, this is for state of three
for each and every state.
How your value function is changing, look at here. Okay?
So there is a, uh, important observation that I want
to ask you in case of normal
unit one, knowledge that is MDP knowledge.
What is the difference between these graph?
Let's say I'm taking this red color graph alone.
This is my value estimate for that state of four.
And what is the difference for this redline car
with the MDP knowledge of you?
You need one knowledge. Can you tell me
What?
Just guess it out. You want have to gimme a right answer.
The value change is very random here,
there it's predefined.
Uh, right, we have defined the value
for each state and action there.
And what about the MDP knowledge Unit One knowledge
Is it when when the episodes increase,
it won't be this much random?
Mm-hmm. That is correct.
It do not be that much random
because you have full knowledge about the environment.
Okay? So the difference is like this, when
in case of unit one knowledge, every state,
the value estimation cannot decrease.
When you go into the next episode as your address
and keep on going on,
your value estimation will keep on rising.
If not rising, it'll be saturating, it'll never go down.
But in case of here, as I told you,
we don't have any knowledge about this probability, this,
this probability, okay?
We are estimating, we are not going
to give estimation of this probability.
Also, we just want to estimate the value function.
So we are initializing the value to be zero
for all the states, and then we keep on updating our value
as and when we take one single transition.
So as a result, this is a random,
it's a random, but it, it is not going down of zero.
Also it is a positive quantity for every episode.
It is changing. The value may go down,
but again, it'll go up again.
It'll go down like that. When it is no longer changing,
then your iation is stopping.
Okay? You have any more questions?
So your next class will be on Q learning
and your assignment is going to be on Monte Carlo learning.
I have done it for TD learning.
Okay? Your assignment is going
to be on Monte Carlo learning.
You have time around,
let's say two weeks or
Mm.
By January 20
I give only two assignment.
One assignment Is this one
Another assignment in coming days, I'll give you, okay,
so this assignment closing date is going
to be somewhere in the January 14th or January.
So how many days time a week?
Tell me two weeks is enough for you
Maximum, Huh?
Could be enough actually this all available internet.
Those are there, there are several gaps
in some understanding.
So we'd like to call that. Hmm? Yeah.
Before we attend for an assignment.
Okay? So I will give time two weeks.
You can have, uh, you try on your own,
you want consult your internet sources,
whatever doubt you have, you write it down.
I can ask me. Okay?
So, uh, January 14, I'm keeping the time for this, okay?
You have one week you are ending,
everybody will be away, so fine.
So 14th of January, okay? What will be the format sir?
Uh, what will be the modern format of the assignment?
I will, uh, give you this, uh,
the same task for frozen lake.
I will give you only two environment.
One is a frozen lake, another one is another.
I will provide to you for that you need
to write your Monte estimation
for doing this value function.
Okay? Is it a take home or a live, uh, coding? Take home.
Take home. Okay. No, no, no. Live coding.
Okay. Okay. Start.
It'll be 14th of January, you are saying
No, no submission date.
14th January.
Okay, Sir. And when, when will you give the
release assignment, sir?
The question
I will give you by tonight itself the question.
Okay, sir. And end date is 40 in January,
The same problem of frozen leg.
I will give only two environment file.
I will, uh, tell you how to
download it from gym, gym package.
We have to use them.
Okay? Uh, sir, it is.
So it's coding and not, uh, manual calculation
of uh, Monte Carlos?
Yes? Yes. Okay.
No manual. Okay,
Sir. The other
question is that your model free RL uh,
slides we can't download?
I think
I'll tell, uh, it is not getting,
you are not getting from your model,
Sir. Uh, Moodle,
we can see I'm not getting
the button to download.
I don't know whether anybody downloaded these 10
slides, which you're talking about. Okay.
I I, I'll checking in my mail
whether I have sent it or not. I'll
Send it to you. Yeah, sir. I
mean we can see the slides,
but we can read online.
There's nothing like, you know,
we save it on our local system.
There Is No
communication on uh, WhatsApp group
that it has been stopped from institution side
because of some issues.
So they have asked to refer it, uh, online, uh, portal only
they have disabled the download option.
It's what the WhatsApp communication says. A couple of data
Know. So sir, is this uh,
I mean they were talking about some
copyright or whatever, something like that
That I don't know. I'll
check with uh, ta.
Okay, sir TA is not in this class, I think.
No, they're there.
TAs are there, I think available.
Yes, sir. Yeah.
So this download from a MS is not working, I think,
Sir, I'm not aware about it.
Actually I have uploaded all the file,
which you have shared with me.
Mm-hmm. I don't know whether it is download, uh,
downloaded or not.
I, I think that there is a message in the group that, uh,
in PDF files which are uploaded are not, uh, allowed
to down download that.
They have put some checks on that actually,
But download is not working. So
Sir, I think they have can
Mail backend team can you mail to because
Yeah, we'll do that sir.
Yeah, because TA don't have any right to do that,
Right? Right.
So are the TA can, uh, mail us all the,
those documents on the issue?
Email,
Mail? No, they can
only upload to LMS portal.
They will not be able to send you person
by person typing all the mail ID
And we don't have mail ID sir.
Mm.
Ma can take the full, we can take the full, uh, database
of all the mail IDs from Akta probably she might be having
because she mails us all.
So then you can share it to, can mail it
because they'll go to collect all this thing and all.
So then Neha you can share it to at one Jeep you share it
to, they'll
Send it.
Okay. Sorry. I'll send it.
Okay. So your, uh, quizzing, uh, quiz timing is basically,
uh, at every Sunday is closing time.
Opening time from Saturday night.
Okay.
Sorry, sir. Uh, every Saturday.
Every Saturday six 30, I think it is going, uh,
every Saturday it is going to be opening up.
Uhhuh, you keep a check what time it is opening up?
It is open till Sunday, 11:30 PM
Oh, okay.
Okay. Because
after Saturday class is over for these two classes,
only one quiz will be there.
Okay. At the same time,
we can upload your class note at the same day.
I mean, Sunday night itself,
Sir, for this Sundays quiz,
can the date be extended a bit?
Because sir, we were in the campus, uh,
back then, so missed it.
Actually
This Sunday already happened, right?
I mean coming Sunday that is, you're talking about
No, sir. Like the last week.
Actually, can
that deadline be extended a bit?
I missed it actually.
Uh, actually, yeah. Don't, so we, we,
We don't have any idea about how to reconfigure
for per single person or let's say group of person.
Sir, we can't enable the case,
but, uh, I can we enable the link
for submission of class notes?
Mm. They don't have
any idea how to conflict only few person.
Uh, but, um, nothing.
Okay. I have another class to catch up.
I have no more time left out.
And, uh, sir, if I may, uh, speak up
regarding the class notes in LMS, I was able
to download the zipped folders, but not the PDF files.
So maybe if the combined related PDFs are stored in a zipped
file and if they're uploaded,
maybe we can download them as a collection.
Okay? Okay. I will do.
Okay. Uh, I have to end up,
I have to catch up another class.
Okay. Thank you. Okay, sir. Thank you. Thank you.